A visit of the liver from an endodermal perspective.
The first impulse at the hepatic level, the notochord,
the neural tube that will form, mesenchymal cells
that will form the entire pericardial and diaphragmatic sac.
The intestine in three primitive parts,
the foregut, the midgut, and the hindgut.
The junction between the foregut and the beginning of the midgut
will actually give us the development of the region.
of the liver. These are already cells
that will have a force
of development.
From an endodermal perspective, I mean.
The phrase to remember from a dynamic perspective,
is that following the influence of the
development of the brain, that's where
the cardiac structure will develop
and the continuous flow of fluid
towards the heart, linked to the growth
of the brain, leads to a region
of congestion within the primitive
vascular system.
This means that this phenomenon will be the basis
of what we call the liver.
So it's following the development of the brain
that the cardiac structure will be born.
This will lead to a region of relative congestion,
which will be the anlage of my liver.
The development of my brain, here,
causes a flexion movement of the embryo forward.
Like this.
This movement occurs on a cardiac fulcrum.
Then it grows.
It grows.
It grows, it grows.
In this growth phase,
there is an area here, underneath,
that will begin to congest.
And the congestion in this phase
will be the anlage
for the mesodermal development of my liver.
The brain will set up the heart,
which will set up the diaphragm,
and which will set up the liver.
And then we'll see later that it will create a space
for my adrenal glands, for my gonads, and then it will close a loop
of
specific feedback, we'll talk about it. Magnificent structure with a heart, with
a liver, with a diaphragm and the entire formation of my intestine and the great
engine will be the development of this brain on the heart to
develop this
liver in relation to this umbilical creation. I have a primitive tube
called the primitive endodermal tube, I have my tube which is here,
a section at this level
of my tube and we see this section with its different layers, its mesos,
its vessels
etc. appearing. Within this very tube, we
see that there are glands and we
will see at some point the appearance by a field.
of suction, by an aspiration field,
like the lungs, like other things, the same
mechanism, the gradual appearance of a tissue that invaginates, which
will enter, which
will form this, it is the anlage of a first biliary duct,
if you will. From this duct,
I have another one appearing each time, and in fact it will form a kind of network
of developing bile ducts, so the liver.
The liver, in fact, is only an expansion of my fragmented digestive tube.
It is only a functional ensemble of bile ducts.
It is a large exocrine system.
It will secrete substances that will go into the intestinal lumen and that will be produced here.
And within it, there will be the entire mesodermal structure, that is, the entire vascular structure,
that will give this impulse with this movement.
which will orient the liver to the right, which will reorganize
the lesser sac of the omentum,
which will organize this splenic movement.
So what you really need to remember is that this developmental movement of the liver
becomes one of the main fulcrums for the development of my entire
digestive tube,
itself organized by the fulcrum of the heart, itself reorganized
by the fulcrum of the brain.
Itself organized by my notochord, itself organized on my polarity, itself
organized on emptiness.
So the fulcrum of the fulcrum is emptiness.
Emptiness, restoring the force of emergence.
Development takes place under the septum transversum.
The vitelline vein located under this septum can be divided into different sections.
Basically, this liver.
initially develops disassimilation products. So its first impulse
on a mesodermal level, in its endodermal structure, is to
is to
receive waste. That's why it has this cleaning function, it's said
to be the purification plant. And then with the kidney which will still
eliminate differently. On another level, the small structure comes from
the endoderm. Okay? You have the venous sinus.
with the cardinal vein, etc.
And you have two large vessels here.
The first large vessel around, we call them the vitelline veins.
Laterally, you have the umbilical veins.
And then we will see that there will be a whole anastomosis
that will form the connections that will form this hepatic connection.
The first level will mainly be the vitelline tissue, which will be in my liver.
My liver contains the vitelline endodermal structure.
of the primitive vitelline vesicle, the structure of the primitive vessels.
Then we see at some point these losses of relationships
and then this very important structure that will develop on the right.
The liver becomes a major fulcrum for the system.
My true fulcrum to enter on a philosophical level will be emptiness.
And then we will be on more subtle networks,
but here the body will take you as far as this consciousness in which you can go.
That's why I'm developing.
that you have to work with space, that you have to work
with its different dimensions, where
biodynamics trains you. Restore
the possibility of the tissue.
If the sand, there is a kind of comfort,
you join a kind of originality
of the system. It's a link
between the pericardium, the diaphragm
and the falciform ligament.
It still descends to the level of the urachus
at the level of the bladder.
Here, we can clearly see that it is a meeting
between mechanobiliary
and mechanovenous.
It is still a large vascular area.
With this image that I like very much, we see this dynamic of development,
this face and this lesser sac of the omentum, the spleen, the gastrosplenic omentum,
the lesser omentum, the hepatogastric omentum, the kidneys and this renal relationship.
And look at the importance of the liver under the diaphragmatic dome.
The diaphragm with its diaphragmatic crura and the liver, these become two great
fulcrums.
super important in the functioning and in the embryological balance
where they become fulcrums of creation.
A synchronicity, the falciform ligament of the liver
in relation to the falx of the transverse mesocolon
and another structure that is here
which will be related to the falx cerebri,
the falx cerebelli and the tentorium cerebelli.
What happens here develops almost synchronously
at the hepatic level,
develops here on the cerebellar level at the level of
the primary and secondary sigmoid root.
The tentorium cerebelli will be related to these large spaces here at the level of the transverse mesocolon.
This happens in common developmental spaces on embryonic planes.
At a distance, what happens here.
We will open up here.
Treating a liver, giving freedom to my falx cerebelli or my crista galli,
will be found under synchronous points, in distant developmental spaces,
but which represent the same tensions.
During your digestive phase, there is a lot of venous blood
in the liver,
and little arterial blood.
After the digestive phase, it's a bit...
almost equal. During the night, you have a lot of arterial blood and little
venous blood. Fundamentally,
a liver can only regenerate at the cellular level during your night.